---
title: "COVID statistic text map showing total cases over Washington, Oregon, and Idaho"
date: 2026-01-26
lastmod: 2026-01-26
slug: "covid-statistic-text-map-showing-total-cases-over-washington-oregon-and-idaho"
draft: false
---

# This is a COVID statistic text map showing total cases over Washington, Oregon, and Idaho

## Overview

This is a map of COVID cases over Oregon (974,924 Cases), Washington (1,975,382 Cases), and Idaho (525,825 Cases). Oregon, Washington and Idaho are three states with Washington to the north of Oregon. Both Washington and Oregon are sandwiched between the pacific ocean on the west, and Idaho in the east.

## Washington

Washington State is distinguished by its unique geographical shape. Washington has a notable Olympic Peninsula extending around 25 miles into the Pacific Ocean on the northwestern corner and a more rectangular eastern region. The state is oriented with the Pacific to its west, Canada to the north, Idaho to the east, and Oregon to the south. It is the 18th largest state in the U.S. It is 360 miles wide from east to west and 240 miles long. The southern border between Washington and Oregon is primarily defined by the Columbia River, making it fairly straight but with natural deviations due to the river’s course. There is a notable 100 mile wide “hump” or bulge in this border, where Washington’s territory extends southward 15 miles into what would otherwise be a straight line, near the mid-eastern area around Walla Walla. The eastern border with Idaho is largely straight from north to south. The northern border with Canada is a straight line. The western border is the most irregular, defined by the Pacific coastline to the west and the Puget Sound to the northwest. The Olympic Peninsula juts out around 25 miles into the Pacific Ocean in the middle of the western border around 190 miles south of the northern border, creating a varied and rugged coastline. The Puget Sound further indents the state’s western boundary, with numerous inlets and islands creating a complex maritime boundary. Washington state has 1975382 Total Cases. The cases are represented by a dot pattern and aliceblue color.

## Oregon

Oregon is characterized by its diverse geographical objects. It has the rugged Pacific coastline defining its western edge and the more uniform eastern region bordered by Idaho. The state is situated with the Pacific Ocean to its west, Washington to the north, Idaho to the east, and California and Nevada to the south. It ranks as the 9th largest state in the U.S. Oregon spans about 360 miles from east to west and approximately 260 miles from north to south. The northern border between Washington and Oregon is primarily defined by the Columbia River, making it fairly straight but with natural deviations due to the river’s course. There is a notable 100 mile long “hump” or bulge in this border, where Washington’s territory extends southward around 15 miles into what would otherwise be a straight line, near the mid-eastern area around Walla Walla. The eastern border between Oregon and Idaho is relatively strait with a small hump of Idaho that goes into Oregon around the middle of the border between Nevada and Washington. The southern border is relatively straight, with minor deviations. It is defined by surveyed lines rather than natural objects, creating a clear demarcation between Oregon and its southern neighbors, California and Nevada. California extends from the pacific ocean and covers about 60% of the southern border, and Nevada covers the eastern part of the southern border for around 40%. Oregon’s western border is marked by its Pacific coastline, which stretches approximately 363 miles. Unlike the relatively straight borders to the north and south, the western coastline adds a natural and irregular edge to the state’s shape with a slight slant, around 25 miles, into the pacific ocean near the southern edge. Oregon has 974924 Total Cases. The cases are represented by a dot pattern and aliceblue color.

## Idaho

Idaho is marked by its distinctive shape and diverse geography. It objects a narrow panhandle that stretches northward, flanked by Washington and Montana, and a broader southern section that shares borders with Utah, Nevada, Oregon, and Wyoming. The state is oriented with Canada to its north, Montana and Wyoming to the east, Nevada and Utah to the south, and Oregon and Washington to the west. It ranks as the 14th largest state in the U.S. Idaho spans about 305 miles from north to south and approximately 479 miles from east to west at its widest point. Idaho’s northern border is relatively short, about 40 miles, confined to the narrow panhandle, and is defined by a straight line that separates it from British Columbia, Canada. The eastern border with Montana and Wyoming starts in the north with Montana. For around 100 miles, the border is fairly strait going north to south with a very gentle slope east. A stronger eastern curve into Montana happens, and Idaho eventually has Montana completely to the north for about 150 miles until it reaches Wyoming. The eastern border between Idaho and Wyoming is strait for around 100 miles. The southern border is strait for around 479 miles (its widest point). The southern border is split equally between Utah in the east and Nevada in the west. The eastern border between Oregon and Washington is strait for around 305 miles, and 60% in the south is the border with Oregon and the 40% in the north is with Washington. Idaho has 525825 Total Cases. The cases are represented by a dot pattern and aliceblue color.
